In this demo, we're going to see
our first actual running transformation
from a third normal form application to the star schema.
We're using here the Sakila sample database that was originally published by MySQL,
and there is a postgreSQL version of it called Pagila.
So these are actually publicly available.
Then, we are using also the facts and dimension tables
design based on a public O'Reilly's dimension modelling tutorial.
So, everything we're using here is actually a public domain.
These are the usual tools we use.
So, we're going to use the iPython SQL,
which requires cycle PGE2 binary and sometimes pandas might be handy.
If you haven't used iPython SQL before,
you actually first have to load that extension
and then you can write a one-liner SQL or a multi-line SQL.
If you write a one-liner SQL,
you can actually use the dollars sign to access a python variable.
In the multi-line SQL, you can not.
To run the connection, you're just trying to align with
a postgre connection string in it and it will connect.
So, the first step we do is that we load the extension.
We have here our local connection, we connect to it,
and then we run percent SQL, that's a one liner,
and we access the connection string,
which is a python variable here,
and then we get connected to the database that we call pagila actually.
Then we want to explore the third normal form schema here.
So, I can actually say,
open in new tab,
and please do not open two tabs of Jupyter ever
because if you have to Jupyter instances writing at the same notebook,
you can get conflicts.
I'm just opening here the image for you to see the schema.
The first thing is, let's look at how much of data we have.
So, you see here we have the stores,
the films, customers, rentals, payments, and so forth.
These correspond to the tables here.
I counted the main ones and we have like 1,000 movies,
some customers 16,000 transactions,
and you will see that the transactions are actually rentals and payments.
You have two staff members and to stores,
but you have lots of cities for addressees and so forth.
So you can actually consider that these are two stores,
but people, the customers come from 600 cities.
Then we have also countries.
So these 100 cities are scattered in 109 countries.
We can look now at the when question,
i.e when these thing happen?
We look at the payments table,
and in the payment we have the minimum payment date and the maximum date.
So it seems that the payment are happening between 2017 and 2017,
like between January and May.
That's five month transactions.
We look also at the location where are things happening.
So we can take a look at the districts and the ID.
We have actually here,
if you look at the address,
so the addresses here are grouped by district,
and then you have a city,
and then actually you have a table for a city linking them to countries, and so forth.